Tonight, explosions
continue to rock Gaza.
The pause in fighting is now delayed
24 hours
ahead of the expected
release of women and children
being held hostage by Hamas terrorists.
And even after this hostage release,
the fate of the vast
majority of those
still being held captive remains
very much in question.
The White House
saying today
that President Biden
has been, quote, personally engaged
in negotiations.
Alex Marquardt is OUTFRONT
in Washington for us.
Alex,
what are you learning about
the status of negotiations
for the rest of the hostages
held by Hamas?
Well, Kate, we've heard repeatedly
from U.S.
officials that they say
they will not rest
until the rest of the American hostages
come out, aside
from these women and children
that the U.S.
will stay very much engaged
for all of these hostages.
But those conversations
really have not begun in earnest yet.
The main focus really has been on
getting these women
and children out,
making sure that this mechanism works.
It is believed
that the easiest negotiations with Hamas
were to get these women and children out.
And that's assuming, of course,
that this all goes
according to plan, that these 50 or more
actually come out in the coming days.
I was speaking with an official
who is
involved in these conversations,
briefed on the ongoing negotiations,
who told me that this first swap of 50
people is the most crucial
to make sure
that this mechanism is working
as was agreed.
So assuming this goes smoothly,
you then have, as you say, the vast
majority of the hostages who remain
and they really do fall into three
distinct buckets.
You have
men who are both elderly
and non-Israeli nationals.
Then you have Israeli soldiers,
both men and women.
And then you have bodies,
people who were killed
either on October 7th or since then.
And U.S.
and Israeli officials agree
that the most difficult
negotiations are going to be around
the Israeli soldiers,
both the men and the women.
No one in Israel
certainly has forgotten
the exchange
of Gilad Shalit back in 11 2011.
He was held for years by Hamas.
And when he was exchanged,
Hamas was able to get more than 1000
prisoners out of Israeli prisons.
So it is possible that the conversations
about the rest of the hostages
begin soon,
but it could be quite some time
before the rest of those hostages
come home Kate. Yeah. For weeks. Months.
How is described to me
by a couple of people just today.
It's good to see you, Alex.
Thank you so much.
OUTFRONT with me now, Jonathan Dekel.
Chen, his son
Siggy is is among
those kidnaped by Hamas now
nearly seven weeks ago,
still captive in Gaza.
Jonathan,
thank you for coming on tonight.
Given what we know about this agreement,
it does seem unlikely
that Siggy will be among
those released in this
and in this in this moment.
What what then does
this moment feel like for you?
Well, I think it's two poles.
The first pole is assuming that
that Hamas can deliver
on its promise here
that these 50 women and children
will be released. I'm overjoyed for them.
And keep in mind
that from my kibbutz
alone, for my one community alone,
there are still 75 hostages
being held by Hamas
since October
7th of the list that's been published.
And there are multiple,
multiple children and women
and moms,
including Leah, at the facility
who you spoke with her
dad a few minutes ago.
These are all my neighbors,
my friends,
my kids friends, my
my grandchildren's friends.
So I couldn't be more pleased for
those families
because it's like my extended family
coming home, on the other hand.
And again,
it it it's very difficult to say
in terms of Siggy and the other
109, the hostages, again, 190 hostages
who weren't referred to at all
in this stage of the agreement.
It's almost impossible to
say, given Hamas as a
sort of a barbarian terrorist
organization with no regard
for human
life, Israeli
or Palestinian, for that matter.
What this first stage might say
about the coming stages.
Do you allow yourself
to think about
that moment when you're when you will see
Siggy again?
It seems just like
I keep thinking of this, Jonathan,
because it's like this
suspend this moment of like his
being in suspended nightmare.
I almost envision
it feels like being just seven
weeks, nearly
seven weeks now
since that horrible, horrible day.
And I just wonder if
if you allow yourself
to think about that moment.
Well, there's not a waking
or even a sleeping moment
that I'm not thinking about, Siggy,
in some measure.
And I can certainly visualize
and love visualizing
his two little girls, running into
leaping into his arms when he comes home
and in a hope in hopes that he comes
home quickly.
But if not, then meeting his third
little girl who set to be born
in a couple of weeks.
So I absolutely have that in mind
as something
that I'm working for and or towards
together with the release
of of all of the hostages
to his poor wife
and what she's going through
and about to bring
another beautiful child
into the world in the midst of this.
Just unbelievable.
How is she doing?
How's the rest of the family handling
handling this
and handling this news right now of
of this deal?
Well, you know,
we're doing the best we can.
It's a it's a multi level
crisis, really,
because
not just Sergei's
family wife and two two young daughters,
but I have another daughter
who lives on the kibbutz
with her young family.
So there are four little kids
between the age of two and six
who were utterly traumatized by this
hell on earth
that befell the kibbutz on October 7th.
So, you know, missing our loved ones,
those that were murdered.
All of my grandkids,
again, from age 2 to 6,
have close friends
who are no longer alive,
who were murdered in their beds
on October 7th.
So we have to deal with that.
And we also have to deal
with the fact that our community
as a whole, our cooperative farm,
like many others around the Gaza Strip
and not just were massacred,
but rather also had
all of their property stolen by hundreds,
thousands of looters actually from Gaza.
And then whatever could not be looted
was burned to the ground.
So there's no going home
for any of these kids or the adults.
Our home as we knew it no longer exists.
It's a series of tragedies
for us,
Israeli civilians
and honestly,
for the Palestinian civilians as well.
And who find themselves
in this horrible situation
not of their making,
but by Hamas is making.
We keep ourselves busy.
I mean, in thinking about what the future
will bring for us.
For me personally, working with the press
and with governments
in Israel and abroad, and keeping laser
attention
focused on this humanitarian universal
issue and challenge of our hostages
in the hands of Hamas
and taking care of the little ones
the best we can,
and trying to help them
make sense of shattered life
and make sense of
what is impossible to make sense of.
Jonathan, thank you so much.